# Recommendation Engine Project

## Motivation
Project motivation
In the IBM Watson Studio, there is a large collaborative community ecosystem of articles, datasets, notebooks, and other A.I. and ML. assets. 
Users of the system interact with all of this. 
Within this scope, we created this recommendation system project to enhance the user experience and connect them with assets.
This personalizes the experience for each user.

## Goal
The project goal is to analyze the interactions that users have with articles on the IBM Watson Studio platform,
and make recommendations to them about new articles they probably will like. 

## Analysis stages

### Exploratory Data Analysis
Before making recommendations of any kind, a data exploration is needed.
There are some basic, required questions to be answered about the data.

### Rank Based Recommendations
To get started in building recommendations, find the most popular articles simply based on the most interactions.
Since there are no ratings for any of the articles, it is easy to assume the articles with the most interactions are the most popular. 
These are then the articles we might recommend to new users (or anyone depending on what we know about them).

### User-User Based Collaborative Filtering
In order to build better recommendations for the users of IBM's platform, look at users that are similar in terms of the items they have interacted with.
These items could then be recommended to the similar users. This would be a step in the right direction towards more personal recommendations for the users. 

### Matrix Factorization
A machine learning approach to building recommendations. 
Using the user-item interactions, build out a matrix decomposition. 
Using  the decomposition, get an idea of how well it can be predicted new articles an individual might interact with. 
Discussion of methods to use moving forward, and measurement of recommendation engine performance.

## Folder structure and files
* The implementation of all of the analysys stages and results are shown in `Recommendations_with_IBM.ipynb` notebook. An HTML version of the notebook is also available (`Recommendations_with_IBM.html`).
* The analyzed raw data is in the `data` folder.
* The `project_tests.py` file contains function to double cjeck the right implementation of the analysis methods.
* The `user_item_matrix.p`, `top_5.p`, `top_10.p`, and `top_20.p` files are cache files generated by running the notebook.

